---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: false
---

# 101

***

Every integration is different, some requiring minimal work and some requiring more work.\
\
While understanding the minutiae of Synthetix V3 core isn’t critical for integration, Integrators should understanding the basics of how Synthetix operates.

**BEFORE** integrating, make sure to answer these questions:  &#x20;

* What do I want to achieve with this integration?
* How will our systems interact with each other?



WHILE integrating, ask yourself:&#x20;

* Have I secured all relevant APIs & smart contract interactions?
* Did I test gas fees optimization, scalability and security under real-world conditions?
* Did I document all relevant APIs, contract interactions, and system flows so that future developers can easily understand and maintain the integration?

If you find yourself facing challenges or frustrations along the way, such as feeling stuck or encountering unexpected obstacles, remember:

> _"If backend integration was easy, we’d all be out of a job."_

Now, let's jump right in. Here's where you should go, depending on what role you want to play:

* [Broken link](broken-reference "mention"): Build a perp trading interface or automated trading strategy.
* [Broken link](broken-reference "mention"): Build an LP interface or automated LP strategy.
* [Broken link](broken-reference "mention"): Build a completely new derivative market.
* [Broken link](broken-reference "mention"): Configure and manage a new collateral Pool.

***

## Join our community

If you have any questions about anything related to integration with Synthetix, you're always welcome to ask our community on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/KVeCZe6ahW) or [Telegram](https://t.me/+Jwf641J8a6M1ZTI1).  You can also join our [Integrator List on X](https://x.com/i/lists/1677086706246520832).&#x20;
